
# Project

Mary Brown 10/6/2021

## Project One Discussion

For this particular project I wanted to use data that was easy to pull
from the API to make my functions. I first went through and reviewed all
of the API links and decided that it was probably best to work with the
COVID API. There was a lot of data within this API that seemed very
comparable, especially for the graphs/plots portion of this project. One
piece of interesting data was being able to compare the amount cases in
different Provinces of Australia. Some confirmed cases were
significantly higher in particular provinces compared to others. It
makes me curious as to why and I’m wondering if it’s due to the
population numbers in specific provinces. The most difficult part of the
project for me was creating our functions. I didnt get as many as we
needed working and I seriously spent days on them. Functions in R have
always been difficult to me and I’m not sure why, I think because they
can take in so much data and it starts to run together for me. I spent a
whole day just re-reading the data within endpoints as well as the
project instructions just to wrap my head around the concept and how I
needed to set up those functions. It was hard to do the statistical
analysis at the end because of the data that I was unable to pull. This
project definitely isn’t my best work but I do feel like I’m learning a
lot so it is beneficial for me. For future projects, I plan to allow
myself more time to just digest what it is that we are actually trying
to figure out. I would also probably explore more of the data prior to
choosing what endpoints to work with. There really weren’t a lot of
endpoints to choose from using COVID, so it made the options on what
kind of functions to create a little more difficult for me. It actually
became easier to create functions after I created graphs with the data
because then I understood better what endpoints I was going to need for
the summary data.

Link to my Project Repo (GitHub):
<https://github.com/Mbrown1994/Project-1-558>  
Link to my usual repo, where my blog has been rendered:
<https://github.com/Mbrown1994/MBrown1994.github.io>
